that it's fresh yesterday, today, and forever.
And that it is something that we can learn from it each time that we open it.
So I'm just glad to be able to have this today to be able to do it.
The Bible also tells us that it's living and it's breathing.
And so I'm hoping that God will breathe breath into this for you today.
So follow with me here if you would.
Again, I invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke chapter 17.
and verses 11 through, what was it again, 11 through 19?
So stand with me and let's read together.
Reese's Way, now on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee.
As he was going into a village, 10 men who had leprosy met him.
They stood at a distance and called out in a loud voice, Jesus master half pity on us.
When he saw them, he said, go show yourselves to the priest.
And as they went, they were cleansed.
One of them, when he saw he was healed, came back, praising God in a loud voice.
He threw himself at Jesus' feet, thanked him, and he was a Samaritan.
But Jesus asked were not all ten cleansed.
Where are the other nine?
Has no one returned to give praise to God except this foreigner?
Then he said to him, rise and go, your faith has made you well.
Pray with me, please, Lord, thank you for this passage on thankfulness, on faith, and everything, Lord, that we can glean from this on this day.
We just pray that you use it, Lord.
We just pray, Father, that it is a divine word that comes from you, that is something, Lord, that will just hide anything from
Now, to take me out of the limelight, I don't want to be there.
Father, I want it to shine directly on you.
So I just pray that today you will use me as that vessel that you've called me to be, to be able to deliver this word in a way that you would have us do.
So Lord, thank you.
If there's someone today that doesn't know you that's here, we just pray, Lord, that you will touch their heart through it.
In Jesus, we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Again, this is a wonderful passage of scripture that I do enjoy.
reading and massaging and Joe just kind of squeezing out what we can get from this and I do enjoy this passage and it's just a wonderful passage on many, many things.
It has a lot to say about thankfulness and it also has a lot to say about the lack thereof and it also has a lot to say about faith.
And all of these things we're going to be talking about, but there's a tremendous lesson here for all of us in some way, shape, form or fashion today.
These 10 lepers, these guys had an awful disease, a terrible disease.
I don't think anybody in our congregation today can say that they have ever had leprosy.
This was something that I feel certain that you would not want to have.
It does still exist today in the form of what's called Hanson's disease, I believe, but they have medications and those kinds of things now that are helping to keep that under control.
But under those days, it was an awful disease.
It was about as bad as of a disease that you could imagine ever getting.
It's one that you definitely did not want to be part of.
Leprosy.
It was awful.
It was highly contagious.
It was just a terrible, terrible disease.
If you had leprosy, then you were considered what they called unclean, unclean.
Would you like to be your status to be unclean?
That is a status that no one would, but they had it.
And leprosy, even though it was dreadful, and even though it separated them from the rest of society, back in those days, it was still a fairly common disease.
even though it's not so these days.
Now we see the word leprosy mentioned many times in the Bible to the tune of about 68 times.
If you were to take a look at it, you're going to see it that often.
And between the old and the New Testament, and it was a notable disease.
People did their dead level best to keep their distance from anyone who had leprosy.
These 10 men are identified as being lepers.
Wouldn't want to be identified that way, would we?
Well, this is what they were classified as.
They were lepers that would have been an awful way of life to live being a leper, having leprosy.
They all had to stay together.
They could not mingle out in the rest of society.
They were unclean.
They had to mingle together.
They were contagious.
They had an unclean designation.
So they were forced away into these pods away from the general population.
They could not mingle with the ones that did not have leprosy.
Now, of course, the scripture this morning that we read, we see this.
Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem.
On his way there, he went through Samaria.
He went through Galilee where he would encounter these 10 lepers.
So do you believe, like me, that this is a divine appointment?
I believe that it is.
And as he entered this village, he's walking into this village
He came within shouting distance of these 10 men with this awful disease called leprosy.
Well, these guys knew who Jesus was.
Did you pick that up from what we just read?
The word of healing miracles had spread.
We've been watching the chosen old Sunday nights and we've been able to see some of these healings that he's been done and the crowds just get bigger and bigger.
Well, these 10 men had heard of this healing man named Jesus.
So look with me, let's look at another passage here, also in Luke chapter five.
Luke chapter five is another place where we see.
And I believe that this is where these 10 men came to know that Jesus could heal because of what had happened to this one man.
When we look here in verse 12 of chapter five, it says, while Jesus was in one of the towns, a man came along who was covered in leprosy.
When he saw Jesus, he fell on his face to the ground and begged him, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean.
Well, Jesus reached out his hand and touched the man.
I am willing, he said, be clean.
And immediately the leprosy left him.
Now notice this, then Jesus ordered him.
Don't tell anyone, but go show yourself to the priest.
and offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded you for your cleansing as a testimony to them.
Yet the news about him spread even all the more so that the crowds of people came to hear him and to be healed of their sicknesses.
But Jesus often withdrew to lonely places and prayed.
So these 10 men heard the testimony of this one man, and when they saw Jesus coming, they began to shout for him.
You see what it says there says now on his way to Jerusalem.
He was going into the village and then in verse 13, it says called out in a loud voice.
They were shouting for him.
Jesus master.
They were calling for him have pity on us.
So in verse 14, we see that Jesus saw them and he then gave them a command.
He said, here's what you need to do.
You need to go and show yourself to the priest.
Now I like how this happens here.
It says as they went.
You see that?
It says as they went, they were cleansed.
Now this is an important part of what we're talking about today when we reveal the faith aspect of this story.
This was really nothing overwhelmingly here that was dramatic.
In the past, Jesus had healed a blind person.
We'll remember this.
In dramatic fashion, he rubbed mud on his eyes and healed his eyes.
Another healing happened in dramatic fashion.
When the four friends of the paralytic was lowered down into the roof because the crowds were too great for him to get in the front door, the lame man, he couldn't get in that house.
The house was overrun by people trying to see Jesus.
So what did they do?
They dramatically lowered him through that
They moved all the flax.
They moved everything they needed to move to get him lowered in.
Again, there's nothing really like that here for these lepers to go and be healed.
All they needed was a word from God.
All they needed was that, and he told them to do this.
He said, go and run to the priest.
Let them see you.
Now, you might be wondering, why did they need to run to the priest?
This is the second time, and remember in the other passage we read, this is the second time where it says, go and let the priest
see you.
Well, you have to go all the way back to the Old Testament to the book of Leviticus chapter 14 to get this priest process on this.
This is a sermon for another day, but all Jesus did was issue this simple command to go to the priest.
It was simple enough, but it required something from these lepers didn't it?
There was a requirement there.
They had to take the first step on their own.
They had to exhibit the faith.
They took the first step with leprosy, and by the time they reached the priest, the leprosy was all gone.
You see, for them to see the priest meant that their leprosy had been healed.
It wouldn't have helped them to go see the priest, even if they'd had one little speck of leprosy on their body somewhere.
It had to all be healed.
to see the priests meant that they would be able to mingle back into their society.
To see the priests meant that they would be able to live a normal life in society free from all the physical agony and the isolation of living outside of the rest of the world.
I can only imagine the sheer
excitement and overjoyed annihilation that these ten lepers must have felt as they were running towards the priest.
If you think about it, maybe perhaps every step that they took became less painful and less painful and less painful as they were making their way to the priest.
They were running to what we could call today their certain freedom.
They were running towards their freedom.
All ten of them exercised their faith when they took that first step along.
It was only after that first step though.
that the healing began.
You know, preaching a message today about being thankful.
Of course, we're going to continue that, but this faith aspect is very important.
We cannot ignore this here.
How many times do we as a society of Christian, of Christian people fail to exercise our faith in this way?
How many times does that happen in our lives?
What does trusting the Lord for everything look like?
for us in everything.
What does it look like for us?
You see, to trust the Lord and to have faith in Him means this.
It means that we give Him absolutely everything.
We give it all to Him.
There's no halfway.
Let me put it to you this way.
We either have faith in the Lord or we don't.
It's all or nothing.
We either have faith in Him or we don't.
We don't have a sometimes God, so we can't have a sometimes faith, amen?
We can't do that.
We must trust Him with everything, or we're really not trusting Him with anything.
These lepers had no doubt in the ability of Jesus.
I just like the way this story goes.
There was no doubt in their mind that if they asked for their healing, that it would be given to them.
Faith, they trusted.
They don't seem to have been thinking, well, you know, maybe I'll get healed if I make my way over to the priest.
They could not wait to get to the priest to show off this new cleansed body that they had.
I believe they were in such a hurry to get there.
I believe that they were running with all their might, taking each step less and less pain, more and more speed building up to get there.
And they were so excited and so overjoyed that they forgot something.
They left something behind.
Well, all but one of them at least.
They either forgot to be thankful or perhaps they chose not to be thankful.
Either way, there were 10 lepers for nine of them.
Their first thought was themselves and their situation being resolved.
Their healing was coming.
They knew this.
Their entire way of, think of this, their entire way of life was being changed.
One of the lepers when he saw that he had been healed, he stopped.
He turned around.
What was happening in his life, he knew was nothing short of a miracle from God himself.
He knew that.
He recognized that it was only Jesus that could do this for him.
And when he, when he had turned around, I believe that he may have actually locked eyes with Jesus Christ himself.
When he saw him, he began to praise and he began to, to give God glory and a loud voice.
Listen, he fell to his face at the feet of Jesus and began to thank him from what he had done for him.
What a sight this must have been on that day for this leper.
who was being healed.
An overwhelming gratitude began to flow from this man.
Listen, what was sick had now been healed.
It's amazing what God can do.
Jesus had given him new life free from the leprosy that had plagued him.
I find it even more impressive that this man didn't call Jesus to the side.
He didn't call him away from the crowds.
He didn't look for a private place to thank Jesus.
No, he did it as loud as he could publicly.
Loudly, he praised Jesus for what Jesus had done for him.
This man screamed to praise and thanksgiving to God so that anyone all could hear what God had done for him.
He wasn't ashamed to give Jesus all of his praise.
This man knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that what had happened to him was a complete
and sheer miracle.
And it's another factor to this story here that we need to take a look at.
Another interesting part of this is the fact that this man was a Samaritan.
Not only was he considered unclean, he was considered to be a foreigner as the new international version puts that this morning.
Of course, Jesus was Jewish.
He was hated by the Samaritans.
It didn't matter to Jesus who this man was.
It's his nature to bring salvation.
It's his nature to bring healing to whoever.
He offers salvation full and free to all of us.
Even those of us who were sitting here today, all we have to do is say yes and accept it.
You see, when it comes to Jesus, when it comes to salvation, there's no distinction whatsoever between any people.
None.
We're all in the same situation.
You know what that situation is?
We're all sinners in need of a savior.
Doesn't matter where we came from.
Doesn't matter who your grandma was.
Doesn't matter about any of that kind of stuff.
We all are there together.
There's no distinction between race or creed.
There's no distinction between male or female.
There's no distinction between rich or poor people.
However, you define that Jesus died so that all of us can have the salvation that only he can give.
And when I begin to think deeply about these 10 lepers, it reminds me so much of our world today.
And how we look at this and what we continually see, what we continually see wherever it is that we go.
Let's take another look at verse 17.
Verse 17 finds Jesus asking a question, two of them exactly.
We're not all 10 cleansed and where are the other nine?
Jesus was saying there were 10 men who were cleansed of their infirmity.
Was there no one other than this foreigner or this Samaritan who was going to give God the glory for what had happened on that day?
You see, these other nine received their healing.
They ran to the priest as fast as they could so that they could regain the status that they so desired of being able to live in society.
They were not thinking of any one at that particular time in their lives, except themselves.
They wanted their lives back.
and it's understandable that they would, of course they would, but where was the gratitude?
Shouldn't they not have said thank you?
Shouldn't they have been gracious to who healed them?
Shouldn't they be gracious for the gratitude for Jesus to thank Him for probably the most significant thing that has ever happened in their lives?
This Samaritan's first thought was to turn back to Jesus.
Thank you for what he had done.
He truly acknowledged his own unworthiness and he gave God the glory for what he had done for his healing and for his restoration.
It was at this point in his life that he understood something.
He understood the goodness of God.
He understood the mercy of God.
There's no record here that Jesus had anything else to say to the crowd on that particular day.
It would have been obvious to Jesus that the other nine just simply missed the point.
They just went on their way, never acknowledging the love and the mercy of the Almighty God.
There was no thanks to Jesus for how He had blessed them on that day.
Sometimes when I read these stories,
And I think about all of this, we have the record that God wants us to see.
Sometimes I wonder if these nine guys knew that Luke was going to write about them.
Never thought about that.
To this Samaritan, the one that did thank Jesus, he said, rise and go your way.
Your faith has made me well or made you well.
All 10 of these men were healed physically, but listen, it was only this Samaritan who was healed spiritually.
Turn with me to the book of Philippians quickly.
I'll have it on the screen, chapter four, verses six and seven says this.
Do not be anxious about anything, but in every situation by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your request to who, to God.
And the peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your heart and your minds in Christ Jesus.
Isn't it a wonderful thing to live in thanksgiving to God?
It is only a life full of thanksgiving that will experience this true peace of God that only he can offer.
He's done so much for us, so much for you and for me.
And as I open our message today, I can't tell you just how much God has blessed me, how he has intervened in the lives of me and my wife and our blood family, and then all of our family right here.
Everything that God has given me is undeserved.
It's unmerited.
I have done nothing to deserve what God has done for me.
All I can do
It's be thankful.
And I try.
I am nothing without Him.
It is He that is everything within me.
I don't deserve any earthly thing that God has blessed me with.
But I'm thankful that God loves me enough to bless me that way anyway.
Listen, church, and I mean just with every fiber in me,
I don't ever want to be part of the other nine.
I don't ever want to be found that way.
I want my Lord and savior to always find me thankful.
I want him to always find me grateful and faithful.
In this passage of scripture, I use it again and again, but it drops a heavy burden on me for those who are.
the other nine.
It burdens me for the church at large.
I believe that we need to ask the question this way, is the North American church part of the other nine?
Is that the state of the church today?
Are we the ones who God has blessed over and over again, but don't stop long enough to turn around and say, thank you, Jesus.
Are we the ones that go through these religious motions like Leviticus describes to us like these nine did when they went to the priest to show their healing?
Are we the ones who go through the motions of reading our Bibles and praying and showing up sometimes at church but not living thankfully or any differently as a result of those things?
Listen, church, have we come to Jesus?
like this Samaritan foreigner and had an encounter with Jesus.
Have we had that?
Have we seen His grace at work in our lives?
If we have, then listen, it's time that we are overwhelmingly thankful for that.
The church at large.
It's time that we stop playing around with religion and get serious about Jesus and sharing His Word.
Our world is lost.
We need to share the Word of God with everyone we see.
It's time that we can become a people of thanksgiving, a people of gratitude.
It's time we become a people of love and of grace and of forgiveness.
It's time that we become a people who sacrifice our time and our talents and service to the Lord and to others.
It's time that we get involved in all of our local churches helping to build God's kingdom as we're called to do so.
Listen, folks, this is important.
It's time that the church stops following the nine and begins to follow Jesus.
That's where we are.
In my prayer for you today, for everyone in this room, everyone who's going to be listening on Facebook, wherever you are, that we are part of the one, not part of the nine.
We should be praising Jesus like this Samaritan man, amen?
Yes, we should.
We should follow on our face at the feet of the mighty God.
He's done great things for all of us if we will just stop for one second and take notice as to what Jesus does for us.
We must do this.
We should be thankful.
Every step we take, we should be more and more thankful as we show what God has done for us in our lives.
We should recognize that God
Showers us daily.
Do you know you were showered every day with blessings?
Don't miss these chances to live a thankful life.
I'll give you another scripture in that book of James chapter 1 verse 17 tells us this.
Every good, perfect gift is from where?
Yeah.
Comes down from the father of the heavenly lights who doesn't change like shifting shadows.
in the good that we serve and unchanging God.
We get so much to be thankful for.
Our God Church, listen, through this Thanksgiving, and from now on, remember, our God is worthy of our praise every day.
When we really stop to remind ourselves how God gives us, we should be overwhelmed
with the desire to praise the Creator who has given us everything.
My prayer this morning is that you recognize Jesus.
You're living thankful for all that He does in your lives, every headbound, every eye closed.